# DS-Algo-Milestone

  The following program stores courses and its information that is obtained from a comma separated txt file. The program takes in a file, parses through it, and stores each course in a vector data structure. Dependent on the program, the program then stores the parsed course data into either a hash table or binary search tree. A user can then look for a specific course or print all the courses in sorted order. In the hash table program, collisions were dealt with by storing a list at each vector index. The hash table data structure allows for inserts, searches, and deletions with O(1) runtime complexities. However, in order to sort and print from a hash table data structure, an auxiliary vector data structure is required and quick sort was implemented to sort the courses. The auxiliary space complexity was therefore O(N) and the runtime to create the additional vector was O(N). The quicksort algorithm required a runtime of O(NlogN) and printing required a runtime of O(N), giving an overall runtime complexity of O(NlogN). The program utilizing a binary search tree required O(H), where H is the height of the tree, to build the binary search tree. Searching for a specific course required O(H) time as well, where H represents the height of the tree. An in-order traversal was implemented to print the list in sorted order, which required a runtime complexity of O(N). 
  In the creation of the programs, psuedocode was first created and runtime and space complexities were analyzed. The pseudocode documents are included in the commit. The correct choice of a data structure is essential as choosing the optimal data structure can ensure that the program runs efficiently based on the application. In order to complete the programs, additional resources such as stackoverflow.com was utilized. This project acknowledged the importance of different data structures' strengths and weaknesses. In approaching the design of software and programs, the application should first be fully understood before implementing pseudocode and data structures. The runtime and space complexities should align with the application requirements and in order to achieve said goals, the data structures should be thoughtfully chosen. During implementation, this project has allowed me to pratice writing code that is maintainable, readable, and adaptable. The program was written in an object-oriented fashion to increase its maintainability and adaptability. Emphasis was also put on comments to allow for understandability between different users. 
